## About Arafat Abdussalam

I am a Front-end Engineer focused on building user experiences and interfaces that are accessible to different categories of users, enjoyable when interacted with, and can be adapted by an increasingly growing team of engineers and designers. I am equally fascinated by the design principles that guide my implementation. With experience in Developer Relations, I am conversant with translating user needs into meaningful actions that drive product awareness, adoption, and retention. My long-term goal is to be a Design Engineer, and I am excited that the Linux Foundation Mentorship at KubeStellar enables my access to design experts who can aid my expertise in design thinking, in addition to my expertise in Frontend Engineering.

My tech career gained momentum when I started to participate in open-source programs. At this point, I gained intensive technical expertise required for my area of specialisation. Ever since, I have built personal projects, given a talk at a tech conference, and maintained a career in Frontend Engineering while still building my technical expertise. I am excited about progressing further in open-source collaboration where I can apply my expertise and gain new knowledge.

I am skilled in implementing design fundamentals such as colors, spacing, typography, iconography, and other elements that make up a design system component. I am also skilled in building Design Systems using Storybook from an engineering perspective. However, my curiosity is yet to lead me to setting up the building blocks of design systems. I am concerned with questions such as - what drives the decision of this ux/ui design? How do I get started? Hence, I am confident in my ability to adopt Figma as a tool that elevates user experiences, given that I have attained the readiness to get started.

What sets me apart from other candidates is that I like to take a structured approach to solving problems, and I like to seek clarity on the scope of a project to reduce the time and budget cost of the project. I am a self-starter, and I know where to find the resources that enable me to kickstart my project workflow. I understand that mentorship requires deliberate efforts, and I am excited to translate my efforts into a delightful user experience for KubeStellar. I know that I need guidance on building design systems, and I know what I need guidance on. It is evident in the deliverables that I submitted for my proposal. My unique traits are equally evident in my tech-career journey, given that I transitioned into tech from a different industry. I am excited to propel my growth further.
